== README

The Mag6 project demonstrates how to read an Excel file into a database,
and how to export a database table into an Excel (.xls) file.

Once you clone the project, the default database is Sqlite3.

Run the following command to make sure your gems are up-to-date:
   bundle install

If there is a problem on Windows, you might be seeing the following
error:
SSL_connect returned=1 errno=0 state=SSLv3 read server certificate B: certificate verify failed

This can be overcome by either manually updating the certificate
for RubyGems using the instructions here:
https://gist.github.com/luislavena/f064211759ee0f806c88

Or just upgrading RubyGems to a newer version.

Once you successfully 'bundle install' then migrate the database
tables
   rake db:migrate

This should create Sqlite3 files in your Rails /db directory.

To populate the database, you can now use a Thor script. To see
what Thor scripts are available, type
   thor list

You'll see the following
C:\Sites\mag6>thor list
populate_data
-------------
thor populate_data:process  # reads Excel data and populates earthquakes table.

reports
-------
thor reports:process  # Creates an old-style Excel (.xls) file for the top 10...
Type
  thor populate_data:process

A process will run in the background importing over 8,000 records
into a Sqlite3 earthquakes table.

Now you can run
  rails s

to start the server.


To export an Excel workbook of the top 100 earthquakes, in the console type
   thor reports:process

A file 'TopEarthquakes.xls' will appear in the Mag6 project root directory.
